DDEV June 2026 Newsletter (#650)
ddev/ddev.com: src/content/blog/ddev-june-2026-newsletter.md

---
title: "DDEV June 2026: Upsun transfers DDEV trademarks, lots of community news"
pubDate: 2026-06-30
summary: "June 2026 DDEV Newsletter, the latest from the DDEV community"
author: Randy Fay
featureImage:
  src: "/img/blog/2026/06/ddev-june-2026-featureimage.svg"
  alt: "DDEV June 2026 Newsletter"
categories:
  - Newsletters
---

## Upsun Completes DDEV Trademark Transfer

> Upsun has finished transferring the DDEV trademark to the DDEV Foundation — a milestone for the DDEV project's long-term independence and health. This is a generous and important step for DDEV. (At one time before Upsun/Platform's involvement, we were ready to fork and rename the project due to trademark issues.) [Read our announcement↗](upsun-trademark-transfer-complete.md). And see Upsun's generous explanation as well: [DDEV is in Good Hands↗](https://developer.upsun.com/posts/insights/ddev-is-in-good-hands).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upsun has finished transferring the DDEV trademark to the DDEV Foundation — a milestone for the DDEV project's long-term independence and health. This is a generous and important step for DDEV. (At one time before Upsun/Platform's involvement, we were ready to fork and rename the project due to trademark issues.) [Read our announcement↗](upsun-trademark-transfer-complete.md) and see [Upsun's generous explanation↗](https://developer.upsun.com/posts/insights/ddev-is-in-good-hands) as well.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Upsun has finished transferring the DDEV trademark to the DDEV Foundation — a milestone for the DDEV project's long-term independence and health. This is a generous and important step for DDEV. (At one time before Upsun/Platform's involvement, we were ready to fork and rename the project due to trademark issues.) [Read our announcement↗](upsun-trademark-transfer-complete.md) and see [Upsun's generous response↗](https://developer.upsun.com/posts/insights/ddev-is-in-good-hands) as well.
```

## What's New

> - **coder.ddev.com: Drupal Contrib** → The hosted Coder.ddev.com environment now supports Drupal contrib projects via the [DDEV Drupal Contrib](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-drupal-contrib) add-on workflow.

Reviewer: shouldn't the addon by amateescu be mentioned as well or was that already done in a pervious newsletter?

Author: Good point, but it's actually not something that people normally need to know about.

> - **Joomla Explicit Support** → Joomla users have loved DDEV for years, but in DDEV v1.25.2+ we have an explicit `joomla` project type. Community member [renekreijveld](https://github.com/renekreijveld) also maintains the [ddev-joomla↗](https://github.com/renekreijveld/ddev-joomla) add-on for extended Joomla workflows.

Reviewer 2: `ddev-joomla` is not an add-on:

```suggestion
- **Joomla Explicit Support** → Joomla users have loved DDEV for years, but in DDEV v1.25.2+ we have an explicit `joomla` project type. Community member [renekreijveld](https://github.com/renekreijveld) also maintains the [ddev-joomla↗](https://github.com/renekreijveld/ddev-joomla) repository, which provides scripts and tooling for extended Joomla workflows.
```

> - **Joomla Explicit Support** → Joomla users have loved DDEV for years, but in DDEV v1.25.2+ we have an explicit `joomla` project type. Community member [renekreijveld](https://github.com/renekreijveld) also maintains the [ddev-joomla↗](https://github.com/renekreijveld/ddev-joomla) repository, which provides scripts and tooling for extended Joomla workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Joomla Explicit Support** → Joomla users have loved DDEV for years, with DDEV v1.25.2 we introduce an explicit `joomla` project type. Community member [renekreijveld](https://github.com/renekreijveld) also maintains the [ddev-joomla↗](https://github.com/renekreijveld/ddev-joomla) repository, which provides scripts and tooling for extended Joomla workflows.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- **Joomla Explicit Support** → Joomla users have loved DDEV for years, and DDEV v1.25.2 we introduced an explicit `joomla` project type. Community member [renekreijveld](https://github.com/renekreijveld) also maintains the [ddev-joomla↗](https://github.com/renekreijveld/ddev-joomla) repository, which provides scripts and tooling for extended Joomla workflows.
```

> - **[mayfly.live](https://mayfly.live)** → DDEV-based online preview environments, in open beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[mayfly.live](https://mayfly.live)** → Zero-config DDEV-based online preview environments, in open beta.
```
Shouldn't the zero-config bit from their homepage be used here as well?

- **Drupal AI Learner's Club AI Safety Session** → Randy was co-host of [AI Security 'Opportunities': Guardrails, Sandboxes, and Keeping Your Agents on a Leash](https://www.drupal.org/docs/develop/development-tools/ai-coding-tools-for-drupal-development/drupal-ai-learners-club-sessions/2026-05-18-%E2%80%94-ai-security-opportunities-guardrails-sandboxes-and-keeping-your-agents-on-a-leash) and introduced a couple of the many add-ons.

## New DDEV GUIs

New community-built GUI tools have appeared for DDEV:

- **ddevbar** → A macOS menu bar app for managing DDEV projects with a single click — start, stop, and restart without touching the terminal. [klemens.ee/ddevbar↗](https://klemens.ee/ddevbar/)
- **DDEVUI** → A native macOS app (Swift/SwiftUI) that puts a visual front-end on DDEV. [github.com/dave-agilepixel/DDEV-Apple-GUI↗](https://github.com/dave-agilepixel/DDEV-Apple-GUI)

> - **ddev-ui** → A cross-platform desktop app (macOS, Windows, Linux) built with Electron and React. Covers project management, database import/export, snapshots, add-on management, log streaming, and more. [github.com/shiv122/ddev-ui↗](https://github.com/shiv122/ddev-ui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ddev-ui** → A cross-platform desktop app for macOS, Windows, and Linux built with Electron and React. Covers project management, database import/export, snapshots, add-on management, log streaming, and more. [github.com/shiv122/ddev-ui↗](https://github.com/shiv122/ddev-ui)
```

## Stanford WebCamp: Pre-Flight Checklist for Drupal Developers

[Bob McDonald (UltraBob)](https://github.com/UltraBob) presented "Pre-Flight Checklist: Local Code Quality for Drupal Developers" at Stanford WebCamp, covering the [`ddev-drupal-code-quality`](https://github.com/UltraBob/ddev-drupal-code-quality) add-on for running Drupal.org CI checks locally before pushing. [View session↗](https://webcamp.stanford.edu/session/pre-flight-checklist-local-code-quality-for-drupal-developers).

## DrupalDevDays Athens — Video Now Available

> Community member [Bill Seremetis (bserem)](https://github.com/bserem)'s "From Chaos to Consistency" DevOps talk from DrupalDevDays Athens 2026 is now on YouTube. The talk covers how DDEV add-ons work as a file/feature delivery mechanism for standardizing team projects. [Watch on YouTube↗](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nr8jOwSqtyE&index=24&t=2066s) • [Slides↗](https://bserem.github.io/presentations/DrupalDevDays%20Athens%202026%20-%20From%20Chaos%20to%20Consistency%20-%20DevOps%20Session.pdf).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Community member [Bill Seremetis (bserem)](https://github.com/bserem)'s "From Chaos to Consistency" DevOps talk from DrupalDevDays Athens 2026 is now on YouTube. The talk covers how DDEV add-ons work as a file/feature delivery mechanism for standardizing team projects. [Watch on YouTube↗](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nr8jOwSqtyE) • [Slides↗](https://bserem.github.io/presentations/DrupalDevDays%20Athens%202026%20-%20From%20Chaos%20to%20Consistency%20-%20DevOps%20Session.pdf).
```

- **DDEV Linux Installation with WordPress** → Step-by-step guide to installing DDEV on Ubuntu and setting up a WordPress project with WP-CLI. [Read on rueegger.me in German↗](https://rueegger.me/ddev-linux-installation-wordpress/)
- **DDEV + a-blog cms** (Japanese) → A guide to using DDEV as a local development environment for a-blog cms, covering multi-project management and Mailpit. [Read on kazumich.com↗](https://kazumich.com/cms/ddev-ablogcms-install.html)
- **Lando & DDEV: Replacing Custom Shell Scripts — Drainpipe** → Lullabot explores how Drainpipe, a Composer plugin for Drupal CI/CD, can use either Lando or DDEV as its local environment. [Read on Lullabot↗](https://www.lullabot.com/articles/lando-ddev-replacing-custom-shell-scripts-drainpipe)

---

## Governance

The DDEV board and community are working on updated sponsorship tiers and improved communication around them. Discussion at [ddev/sponsorship-data#42↗](https://github.com/ddev/sponsorship-data/pull/42) and [ddev.com#647↗](https://github.com/ddev/ddev.com/issues/647).

The first-ever [DDEV Foundation Board](/board) meeting was held on June 17!

> The next DDEV board and advisory group meeting is **July 1, 2026 at 8:00 AM US Mountain / 10:00 AM US Eastern / 16:00 CEST**.

Reviewer 2: Is it "board and advisory" or "advisory"?

Author: It's definitely questionable and trying to find its name!

```suggestion
The next DDEV advisory group meeting is **July 1, 2026 at 8:00 AM US Mountain / 10:00 AM US Eastern / 16:00 CEST**.
```
